I'd like to share some Terraform best practices with you,
to get you thinking about how to deploy Terraform,
with reusability, collaboration and security in mind.
This is not an exhaustive list.
As you proceed in your careers,
you'll see that best practices are subjective,
and what works best for one company won't work for another.
Generally, these practices will keep you aware of the power of
Terraform and the risks and rewards of running infrastructure as code.
So first, create a separate administrative account for Terraform,
that has access to your other environments via special
and limited I am privileges for Terraform only.
Terraform is an administrative tool that manages infrastructure.
So ideally, the administrative function would be
separated from the infrastructure it manages.
Whenever possible, use the latest version of Terraform.
As we discussed earlier,
always manage terraform.tfstate with a remote backend.
Enforce a style guide or a set of
guidelines about how terraform code is written at your company.
How are variables expressed?
Where are descriptions and comments required?
Where do you indent, etc?
How you do it isn't that important,
what's important is that your code is consistent.
Most IDEs have Terraform syntax add-ins and you should use them.
Test all code in a sandbox environment every time.
Explore and take advantage of
the Terraform modules that have been created and shared by the Terraform community.
Why reinvent the wheel?
You can also find that seeing the work
other people are doing will spark your own imagination.
Use modules whenever possible,
just modify your variables.
Modules help you standardize your code,
making it reusable, testable, and ultimately maintainable.
All Terraform code changes should be subject to a code review.
Now, this may be a little far off in the future for some of us,
but it's best to put it in place early so it becomes a part of your company culture.
The code should be reviewed by someone who didn't have any role in making the changes.
Never ever make out-of-band changes to your infrastructure.
That is, once you deploy using Terraform,
don't go back into the AWS console and modify anything.
These changes create bugs,
corrupt the tfstate file and cause other issues that
are too numerous to list, just don't do it.
After code review, the proposed change should have at a minimum,
an impact analysis, a rollback plan,
and even a disaster recovery plan.
Prior to the change being pushed,
all effective application teams should be made aware of
the changes and given an opportunity to express questions or concerns.
Ultimately, the implementation of a best practices culture at
your company will lay the foundation for effective team communication,
rapid issue resolution and predictable deployments.
Terraform implementation should be done
incrementally with all members of the cloud team on board.
Users should be given time to train and become familiar with Terraform.
The move to terraform involves a shift in mindset and culture,
and that takes time.
Terraform is not the answer for every company,
especially a company that doesn't want to use it.
The risk of using it improperly is too great.
Terraform has the best chance of succeeding at your company when it's used to
address a specific pain point and it performs that function well,
then it has a chance of growing to become a bigger part of infrastructure planning.